= Naver 0.2.1

Ruby gem for using Naver OpenAPI (http://dev.naver.com/openapi/tutorial).
네이버 OpenAPI를 위한 루비젬입니다.


== IMPORTANT NOTE / 중요 공지

* Since this is still in development stage, every method or usage may be deprecated in future versions without any prior notice. (I will try to keep track of changes in CHANGELOG.rdoc, though.)
* Although I read the Rational Versioning Policy, I would change the middle number when some old codes might not work well with updates since Naver gem is still in development stage. When this gem considered stable, I will follow the RVP.
* 현재 초기 작업 단계이기 때문에, 사전 공지 없이 모든 메소드나 사용법이 미래 버전에서는 사용하게 없게 될 수도 있습니다. (물론 CHANGELOG.rdoc에 변화 사항들을 기록하려고 노력은 하겠습니다만)
* Rational Versioning Policy에 대해서 읽기는 했습니다만, 역시 아직 초기 개발 단계라서 과거 버전과 compatible하지 않은 버전을 릴리즈할 경우에 버전의 첫째 자리가 아닌 중간 자리 숫자를 변경할 생각입니다.


== Install / 설치법

You can install the gem from rubyforge directly.
루비포지에서 바로 설치하실 수 있습니다.
	gem install naver

Or, you can also install from github. The name is diffrent, which is precedented by my id on github.
아니면, github에서 설치할 수도 있습니다. 젬의 이름이 다른데, 저의 github 아이디가 앞에 붙습니다.
	gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
	gem install oksure-naver


== Usage / 사용법

Before using this gem, you need to get your own API key. To obtain your API key, see http://dev.naver.com/openapi/register.
이 젬을 사용하기 전에 API 키를 발급 받으셔야 합니다. API 키 발급을 위해서는 http://dev.naver.com/openapi/register 링크를 참고해 주세요.

	require 'naver'
	naver = Naver::Base.new(api_key)		### create a naver client / 네이버 클라이언트를 생성합니다
	naver.request("kin", "go", {:display => "5", :start => "1", :sort => "sim"})		### return root node as libxml node / libxml 형식의 노드로 루트 노드를 반환합니다
	naver.kin("go", {:display => "5", :start => "1", :sort => "sim"})		### return root node as libxml node / libxml 형식의 노드로 루트 노드를 반환합니다
	naver.kin("go", {:d => "5", :start => "5", :so => "sim"})		### It's possible to use abbreviation for each option / 검색 옵션을 넘길 때 약어를 사용 가능합니다


== Abbreviation List / 약어 목록

The full list of abbreviation codes is the following. (You can still use full name of each parameter.)
약어 전체 목록을 아래에 정리하였습니다. (약어를 쓰지 않으셔도 작동합니다.)

	d = display
	st = start
	so = sort
	f = filter
	p = payment
	dt = d_titl
	da = d_auth
	dcon = d_cont
	di = d_isbn
	dp = d_publ
	ddaf = d_dafr
	ddat = d_dato
	dcat = d_catg


== License

Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2008 Hyunwoo Park <hwpark@oksurerails.com>
License::   MIT <http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php>
